{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2867
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf0 Last update:
\f1\b0  July 25, 2025\
\

\f0\b This repository includes data that are the property of Anny Castilla-Earls (University of Texas at Dallas), collected through a grant from the National Institute of Health, National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders, award R15DC013670. They are posted on my GitHub repository with permission through our collaboration.
\f1\b0 \
\
The present data have been used in evaluating morphosyntactic development in 116 children ages 4;0 to 6;11, both bilingual and monolingual, with typical development and developmental language disorder. In addition to sharing data from conference presentations (see \'93Conferences\'94 subdirectory), this dataset and code has been used in the preparation of two manuscripts:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}JCL Nominal: review of articles and clitics, under review\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}JCL Verbal: review of verbal agreement, to be submitted\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 We have uploaded anonymized data to this repository. Data cannot be reused for purposes of publication or analysis without the express and written permission of Professor Castilla-Earls. The code is my intellectual property and cannot be used without my written permission. However, readers and researchers interested in replicating the results of the studies using this dataset may find the following notes useful.\
\
The repository is divided into five subdirectories. Each subdirectory contains scripts and, in some instances, graphs, that have been used in preparing this project. These repositories are:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}CSV Files \'96 anonymized CSV files prepared prior to sharing the repository that contain the production data for our manuscripts.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Data Preparation Scripts \'96 this is used to merge data from the CSV files to generate an aggregated file necessary for analysis.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Conferences \'96 data used to prepare for conferences concerning these data; each conference receives its own folder within this subdirectory.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}JCL Nominal Manuscript \'96 code used in the analysis and data visualization for the manuscript concerning articles and clitics.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}JCL Verbal Manuscript \'96 code used to prepare the analysis and data visualization for the manuscript concerning verbal agreement.\
}